Cursed temple
=============

You are an archaeology professor on expidition with your eight graduate
students. You have found a hidden temple, you have found the hidden switches,
evaded the secret traps, and now your expidition finally stands at the heart of
the ancient temple in the lost city.

As you study the ensciptions on the wall in near total darkness, two of the
graduate students bump into the altar. Suddenly, two wisps of green smoke bursts
forth and the walls begin to shake. Fleeing for your lives, you come to a room
you past before. The room has five identical hallways, including the one to the
altar you just came from, and one leading back outside. The giant sandglass in
the center of the room is now flowing with, what seems to be, an hour until its
empty. The rumbling of the walls tells you that you don't want to be present
when the time runs out. From what you recall, it takes about 20 minutes to reach
the exit at a fast pace. You know that this room is the last junction before the
exit but your trail markings have been erased and no one remembers the way
out. If the nine of you split up, there should be just enough time for each
group to explore one hallway and report back to this room with everyone then
making a run down the right path.

There is just one problem: The ensciptions of the wall in the altar room, told
of the altar's curse. Tales of the spirits of the city's king and queen
posessing intruders, and leeding them to their doom though
deception. Remembering the green smoke, you realize two of the students have
been cursed. At any time, one or both of them may lie, though they also might
tell the truth. You know for sure that the curse didn't get you. You don't know
which students can't be trusted and since they may lie only ocasionally, there
is no way to test them to determine which are cursed.

You need to figure out a way to make sure that you can all escape.

Remember:

* There are 5 hallways, including the one to the altar you just came from.

* You have 1 hour to get out.

* It takes 20 minutes one way down a hall, i.e. 40 minutes to check one hallway
and get back to the room to report to the others, and finally another 20 minutes
to run out together, making it a total of 1 hour. Just enough to make it out.

* One, or both, the cursed students **may** lie. One or both might just as well
  tell the truth.

* There are a total of 9 people, you plus the eight graduate students.

* You know for sure that you are not cursed.



[**Solution**](../solutions/temple_solution.md)